A starting lineup in sports is an official list of the set of players who will actively participate
 in the event when the game begins.[1] The players in the starting lineup are commonly referred to 
as starters, whereas the others are substitutes or bench players.
The starters are commonly the best players on the team at their respective positions. Consequently,
 there is often a bit of prestige that is associated with being a starter. In both baseball and basketball,
 it is common for players' positions to be denoted by a number as well as by a name. In that instance, 
the associated number is used as well. If a common abbreviation is known, the abbreviation is listed after 
the associated number.
Starting lineup in specific sports
American football

In American football since the 1950s, most upper level teams use a three-platoon system, each with its
 own starting lineup. The starting lineups for offense and defense, each with eleven players, typically
 get the most attention. The starting lineups are defined as the eleven players who take the first 
offensive or defensive play from scrimmage of a given game. (An offensive player does not have to be
 on the team that gets possession first to be considered a starter, nor does a defensive player have
 to be on the team that does not; the first play from scrimmage after the first change of possession
 counts as well.) The third platoon, special teams, in modern times is composed mostly of backup and
 reserve players from the offensive or defensive platoons, with the exception of the placekicker or
 punter; the players who, for instance, take part in the opening kickoff are typically not considered starters.
Offense: The offensive lineup is heavily restricted by rules that have been adopted over the course of the game's
 development. Several positions are mandatory and must appear in any lineup, starting or otherwise. Others can
 be used or unused at the discretion of a team's coach, provided that no more than 11 players are on the field
 at any given time.
    QB -- Quarterback—Effectively mandatory.
    RB -- Running back—In a standard formation, there are two, the halfback and the fullback. Both positions are optional.
    C -- Center—Mandatory.
    LG, RG—Left and right guards on either side of the center. Mandatory.
    LT, RT—Left and right tackles on either end of the five man offensive line. Mandatory.
    TE -- Tight end. Optional, although either a tight end or a wide receiver must be on each end of the line of scrimmage. 
A standard formation has a tight end on one (usually the right) end and a wide receiver (split end) on the left.
    WR -- Wide receiver—Optional, but universally used in most starting lineups, except for at the lowest youth 
levels (where the forward pass is an unlearned skill). A wide receiver can be a flanker (outside the tight end) 
or slotback (inside a split end) lined up behind the line of scrimmage, or a split end on the end of the line.
 A standard lineup has two wide receivers, one flanker and one split end.
There is some variation; for instance, teams that rely more on passing may not use a fullback
 and start three wide receivers (typically a flanker, slotback and split end).
Defense: In recent history the 4-3 defense (4 defensive linemen plus 3 linebackers) formation
 has been standard among college and professional squads. However, the 3-4 (3 defensive linemen
 plus 4 linebackers) formation is becoming more popular among professional and NCAA Division I 
teams. Unlike offenses, defenses have no restrictions on positions, and the standard lineups have
 developed largely through tradition, experimentation, trial and error.
    DT—Depending on formation a team may have up to two defensive tackles. If there is only one he is called the Nose Tackle (NT)
    DE—A team has two defensive ends
    LB—A team can start three or four linebackers based on formation
    SS -- Strong safety
    FS -- Free safety
    CB—Teams usually start two cornerbacks
Special Teams:
    K -- Kicker
    P -- Punter
    PR -- Punt returner
    KR -- Kick returner
    LS -- Long snapper
The National Football League counts how many times each player takes the first snap of the game.[citation needed] 
This statistic reflects offense and defense only, not special teams. (Every game starts with a kickoff, which
 would be a special teams play.) A player gets credited with only one start if he should happen to be on both
 the offensive and defensive starting lineups (as has happened several times in recent years with Troy Brown 
of the New England Patriots, who played both wide receiver and defensive back.) Yet, this is not the official
 starting lineup.
 The list of players to start the game is usually determined by the head coach of the franchise and not the league.
In American college football, the official record of the game includes a "Game Participation" chart which shows
 the starting lineups and the other participants. The starting lineups reflect the two teams' offenses and 
defenses, not the kickoff teams.
Association football
The most common starting lineup in Association football is called 4-4-2 and consists of:
    A goalkeeper (GK)
    Four defenders:
        2 fullbacks (L/RB) e.g. LB for "left fullback"
        2 centerbacks (CB)
    Four midfielders:
        2 wide midfielders (L/RM) e.g. RM for "right midfielder"
        2 central midfielders (CM)
    Two strikers (ST)
Australian rules football
In Australian rules football, a team starts with eighteen players on the field.
 The traditional positions are as listed below, however in modern football the players
 are organised into three main groups, forwards, midfielders and defenders, each consisting
 of between four and eight players. Only four midfielders from each team are allowed to start
 inside the centre square, the other 14 players can start anywhere on the field.
    Three forwards (one Full-forward, two Forward pocket)
    Three half forwards (one Centre half-forward, two Half-forward flank)
    Three centres (one Centre, two Wing-men)
    Three half backs (one Centre half-back, two Half-back flank)
    Three backs (one Fullback, two Back pocket)
    Three followers (one Ruckman, one Ruck rover, one Rover)
